W-16325926 Adding steps for each type of connected app (#378)
mulesoft/docs-access-management: modules/ROOT/pages/creating-connected-apps-dev.adoc

= Creating Connected Apps

When you create connected apps, keep in mind: 

* Your organization can own up to 2000 connected apps at the root organization or business group level.
* Each connected app can have up to 1000 scopes.

> * All scopes in the endpoint map directly to permissions available in Anypoint Platform, except for exceptions noted in <<endpoint-scopes>>. Scopes determine the level of permissions to provide to the app. 

Reviewer: I misread this as "endpoint map" (map as a noun not a verb). Suggest an alternative word like "correspond".

* Your Anypoint Platform organization owns your app. Any organization administrator of the root organization or business group in which the app resides can control it.
* A unique `clientID` is automatically assigned and can’t be changed. 

> * The `clientSecret` has no expiration date by default but you can change it.

Reviewer: Change the secret or the expiration date?

== Before You Begin

> * You need the Organization Administrator permission at the business group level you want to create connected apps in and specify access scopes for. 

Reviewer: Link to the permissions table?

* Determine whether the app is internal to your company or is a third-party app that's distributable outside of your organization.

[[create-connected-app]]
== Create a Connected App That Acts on Behalf of a User

include::partial$include-create-connected-apps.adoc[]

. For *Type*, select *App acts on behalf of a user*. 
. Select the grant types to use with the app:
* Authorization Code
* Password
* JWT Bearer
+
Note: Based on the grant type you select, additional information might be requested. For more information about grant types, see <<grant-types-and-token-flow>>.
. In *Website URL* , enter the URL where users go to learn more about the app.
. In *Redirect URIs*, configure which URIs users are directed to after authorization. 

> .. Type the URL and click *Add* to add it to the list.

Reviewer: Since it's just one item in the sublist, make it a hanging paragraph instead.

. In *Audience*, select either:

> * *Members of this organization only* if the app is internal to your organization, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Members of this organization only* if the app is internal to your organization
```

> * *All Anypoint Platform users* if it's a third-party public app that can be distributed outside of your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *All Anypoint Platform users* if it's a third-party public app that can be distributed outside of your organization
```

include::partial$include-add-scopes.adoc[]

[[create-connected-app-on-its-own-behalf]]
== Create a Connected App That Acts on Its Own Behalf

include::partial$include-create-connected-apps.adoc[]

> . Select *App acts on it's own behalf (client credentials)*.

Reviewer: Argh! Is that really in the UI?

Author: Yep. *sadface*

include::partial$include-add-scopes.adoc[]

[[grant-types-and-token-flow]]
== Grant Types and Token Flow

The OAuth framework specification describes grant types for getting access tokens for different use cases.

Anypoint Platform supports these grant types:

* <<auth-code>> 
* <<refresh-token>>
* <<password>>
* <<jwt-bearer>>
* <<client-credentials>>

For more information and examples on how to use each grant type, see the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/access-management-api/minor/1.0/pages/Connected%20App%20Examples/[Connected App Examples] in the Access Management API.

[[auth-code]]
=== Authorization Code

Use the `authorization_code` grant type to authorize the app to access a user's data. 

This is an example of the development flow: 

. A developer creates the connected app that acts on behalf of a user with the `authorization_code` grant type.
. The end user authorizes the app to act on their behalf.
. The authorization server sends a temporary authorization code back to the specified redirect URI.

> . The app calls the authorization server with the temporary code to receive the access token. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The app calls the authorization server with the temporary code to receive the access token.
+
```

The access token can now be used to call Anypoint Platform APIs on the user’s behalf.

[[refresh-token]]
=== Refresh Token

Use the `refresh_token` grant type to grant access to user data when the user isn’t signed in. Refresh tokens expire after 90 days. Access tokens expire after the user’s session expires.

> To work with OpenID Connect, apps have to exchange refresh tokens for new access tokens after the initial authorization to continue accessing user data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To work with OpenID Connect, apps exchange refresh tokens for new access tokens after the initial authorization to continue accessing user data.
```

If the app is using the authorization code grant type, the `offline_access` scope is required to use refresh tokens after the original access tokens expire.

To request a new access token, send a request to the token endpoint using the `refresh_token` grant type. When authentication is successful, a refresh token is exchanged for an access token.

[[password]]
=== Password

Use the `password` grant type when the application exchanges the user’s username and password for an access token.

> [[NOTE]]

Reviewer: Does this formatting work? [[NOTE]] I usually use just one set of brackets.

Author: Auto pilot error

> This grant type is not recommended, as it exposes user credentials directly to the connected app. It also precludes the use of additional security measures such as multi-factor authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This grant type isn’t recommended, as it reveals user credentials directly to the connected app. This type also precludes the use of additional security measures, such as multi-factor authentication.
```

The `jwt_bearer` grant type is suitable for use with trusted clients to gain access to protected resources without user authorization, for example:

. A developer creates the connected app that acts on behalf of a user with `jwt_bearer` as the grant type.
. The JWT token exchange occurs with these claims in the payload:
+
|===
| Attribute | Description

| `iss`
| The issuer of the claim. This value must be same as the connected app’s `clientId`.

| `sub`
a| The subject of the token, such as:
----
{version}\|{identityProviderId}\|{username}\|{firstname}\|{lastname}\|email\|externalgroups
----

NOTE: At minimum, `identityProvider_id` and `username` are required for `sub`, as these subjects identify the user in the system.

| `aud`
| The authentication server. For example, the authentication server for the US region is `https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/accounts/api/v2/oauth2/token`.

|===
. The app calls the authorization server with the generated assertion.

[[client-credentials]]
=== Client Credentials

> Use the `client_credentials` grant type for machine-to-machine authentication where a specific user’s permission to access data isn't required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `client_credentials` grant type for machine-to-machine authentication when a specific user’s permission to access data isn't required.
```

The `client_credentials` grant type uses the `clientId` and `clientSecret` of the client to authorize and access protected data.

> You can configure CI/CD pipelines using service accounts to programmatically call Anypoint Platform to use connected apps to prevent service disruptions when configuring xref:multi-factor-authentication.adoc[multi-factor authentication].

Reviewer: Maybe put user value (prevent service disruptions) first?

In any case, this sentence is a long drink of water...

[[endpoint-scopes]]
== Endpoint Scopes

Most of the scopes in the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/accounts/api/v2/oauth2/.well-known/openid-configuration[discovery endpoint] map directly to existing permissions in Anypoint Platform. Other available scopes are:

* `full`
+
Full access to anything the user can do.
* `read:full`
+
Read-only access to anything the user can read.
* `openid`
+
Read-only access to the user's username and unique Anypoint Platform ID.
* `profile`
+
Read-only access to the user's Anypoint Platform profile.
* `email`
+
Read-only access to the user's email.
* `offline_access`
+
Access to the user's data when they're not signed in.
* `openid:google_wif`
+

> Enables you to configure Anypoint Platform as an IdP for Google Cloud by providing an `id_token` and an access token during the OAuth2 token flow for `client_credentials` connected apps. This ID token conforms to the IdP requirements as outlined in the https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation-with-other-providers[GCP's WIF requirements].

Reviewer: Not parallel with the other bullets.

[NOTE]
Apps that use the `client_credentials` grant type always have the `profile` scope assigned to them implicitly. The data returned by queries uses the scope that corresponds to the user who created the connected app.

[[scopes-documentation]]
=== Access Scopes Documentation

> For more information on scopes and permissions in the Connected Apps feature, see the scopes documentation page in Access Management:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about scopes and permissions in the Connected Apps feature, see the scopes documentation page in Access Management:
```

include::partial$include-nav-connected-apps.adoc[]

. In *Connected Apps*, click the *Scopes Documentation* tab. 
+

> The *Scopes Documentation* page appears, showing the scopes, their respective permissions, and the products to which they belong.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Scopes Documentation* shows the scopes, their respective permissions, and the products they belong to.
```
